[ Music ]
>> Lilou: Hello my juicy
co-creators, Lilou here.
I'm in London in England
with a Dutch guy in London.
I love it.
Hello, Tim.
>> Tim van der Vliet: Hello.
How are you?
>> Lilou: Good.
I like-- this is, this is
very much a capital in Europe.
This is-- a lot of people from
the U.S. are watching this video
and Gaiam is this
beautiful community,
very much spiritually aware.
>> van der Vliet: Um huh.
>> Lilou: And I'm excited to
do this interview together
and speak of your book and your
adventure and your discovery.
To me you're, you're what it is
to be a human being, you know,
enjoying life and having fun.
And you made one of your, I
guess your dream come true
or I don't know, you had a
radical kind of change of life,
though on the outside, because
technically inside you're still
the same person enjoying
your ride.
But, you, you wrote this
book, "Spiritual Awakening"
with Hayhouse, but you
used to be a trader.
>> van der Vliet: Yes.
>> Lilou: Like you
know we're here
in this big financial capital
here in London and you used
to trade for 13 years.
Is that right?
>> van der Vliet:
For 13 years, yes.
>> Lilou: Wow.
>> van der Vliet:
So, I've been working
in Amsterdam on the
auction floor.
It's basically the
trading floor.
You know these guys with the
collared jackets and they're,
the whole day they are screaming
and nobody understands
anything of it.
>> Lilou: Yes.
>> van der Vliet:
This was my job.
>>> Lilou: Wow.
>> van der Vliet: And
yeah, the funny thing was
that I loved to do it.
So, back then I was
doing what I like
and I'm still doing what I like.
But, it seems like an
extremely big change.
>> Lilou: Yeah.
>> van der Vliet: Yeah.
>> Lilou: But, you made-- you
had some big lessons there
because you talk a little
bit about it in your book.
But, actually back then
you learned some things
about the ego and
some other things--
>> van der Vliet: Yeah.
>> Lilou: On how
to deal with that.
>> van der Vliet: Yeah.
And that's-- I thought
it was quite interesting.
And so I came fresh from
university and I studied a lot
about options and
portfolio management,
everything that has
to do with finance.
And then I started working.
On my first day I heard
my boss saying listen,
I want you to forget everything
you learned at the university.
I want you to be a blank page
for a moment, a clean sheet.
Yeah, forget everything.
There's only two things that
are important for a trader.
The first is a trader
doesn't have a big ego,
because if you have an ego
it shows in either fear;
being fearful or being too
big for your boots, you know.
You know the saying that you
feel so good about yourself
that you are like number one.
This is both ego and if you do
that as a trader you're going
to make mistakes and
you're going to lose money.
And the second lesson,
the second feature
of a good trader is that a good
trader is always in the moment.
It doesn't matter if
you just did your worst
or your best trade
ever in your life.
It doesn't matter.
There's only the trade to come.
So, this is the-- yeah,
it's really amazing
that you learn this on
the auction exchange.
You know your first lesson it's
very spiritual you could say.
>> Lilou: Yeah, because from
the outside we could see bankers
or traders you know
as creating a big mess
and just people they're thinking
of their own, you know of money
and of their own
sake, but no huh?
>> van der Vliet: No.
>> Lilou: Just a little
bit different insight.
>> van der Vliet: Yeah.
Well, I think everything
is always different
than we think it is.
And we put too much
weight on what we think
and we give it too
much importance.
And I think that spirituality
in general is just
following your intuition.
And it doesn't really
matter if you're a banker
or a yoga teacher or a farmer.
If you follow your intuition
you're basically helping the
world further.
And I have to say
at the same time
that after 13 years I
felt my energy going down
and it was time to
stop, you know.
So, there is also a time
that you think well,
okay I don't feel like
playing this game anymore.
>> Lilou: Yeah.
>> van der Vliet: Yeah.
>> Lilou: A different game.
What kind of game is that
then because to write a book
and to decide to
self-publish after,
after being a trader what a
change in lifestyle or security
or whatever you want to call it?
Did you have to face
some fear to get there?
I mean what was that?
Was there a tipping point?
>> van der Vliet: Yeah.
Well, actually there
was a certain moment
in my trading period
where I lost all my money
in six months' time.
So, I had 600,000 Euros and I
lost it in six months' time.
And this was my six
months of being in fear.
I completely stepped
into my fear.
And it started with worries of
losing all the money that I had.
And because I crawled into
that fear and I only saw
that, I didn't sleep well and
I-- it was a terrible period.
But, because of that period
after six months
I lost everything
and the funny thing was that
the day after I lost everything
so you have to imagine
that six months
of almost no sleep
and just pure panic.
And after six months
I lost everything
and I also lost my fear.
So, I was actually relieved
because it was all
gone including my fear.
And I learned there that being
fearful of losing something
for example, is actually worse
than losing that something is.
>> Lilou: Yeah.
>> van der Vliet: So, this
was my true facing my fears.
I had a few more, but you know
that this was before that.
But, this was really, really
something where I learned
that if you're afraid
of something--
>> Lilou: Yeah.
>> van der Vliet: It's actually
worse than that what you fear.
>> Lilou: Um yeah,
such a powerful lesson.
>> van der Vliet: Yeah.
>> Lilou: I mean I love
those little things
and I love this book oh my God,
with all these-- it's just--
it's very simple and goes
straight to the point.
Like for example, there's
a dog on this cover.
You have to tell us.
I mean the word dog,
God backwards.
>> van der Vliet: Well--
>> Lilou: I mean where did
that came from, my God?
>> van der Vliet: Yeah.
Well, I know this my
whole life actually.
And I think this
is not so original.
But, did you ever realize that
God spelled backwards is dog?
>> Lilou: No.
>> van der Vliet: It makes
you think doesn't it?
>> Lilou: Yeah it does.
>> van der Vliet: Well,
the thing is with dog is
in this book in the beginning
I write something about gurus,
a thought on gurus
and their followers.
And I think gurus don't exist.
Your guru is you.
My guru is me.
So, the only guru everybody
has is their own intuition.
You should only follow and
listen to your own intuition
and nobody else, yeah.
And if somebody is telling you
that they know better than you,
run away yeah, because
gurus don't exist.
But, then further
in the book you find
out that I do have a guru,
which is the neighbor's dog,
because he's so spiritual
because he doesn't worry
about the balls and he
doesn't worry about the future.
And he's very easily happy.
You know if you feed him and
you walk him he's a happy
person actually.
And this is what I learned.
>> Lilou: He loves
unconditionally.
>> van der Vliet: And he
loves unconditionally, yeah.
And this is-- so this
is my spiritual teacher.
It's-- the dog really
exists, yeah.
So, and-- I'm very much
inspired by everything
around me also the so-called
bad stuff or the dark stuff.
>> Lilou: Yeah.
>> van der Vliet:
It inspires me too.
But--
>> Lilou: Okay, we'll
go back into that,
because I love the dark,
black is beautiful.
>> van der Vliet: Yeah, yeah,
yeah that's another thing.
No but about the dog, so I see
Sammy, which is a pseudo name
because he didn't want
me to use his real name.
>> Lilou: That is so cute.
Oh my God.
>> van der Vliet: Well, I think
it's important to make fun,
even if it's making
fun about spirituality.
>> Lilou: Yeah.
>> van der Vliet: You know
I think it's very spiritual
to make fun about spirituality.
>> Lilou: Oh yeah.
>> van der Vliet: But,
so gurus don't exist.
But then, you find out later
in the book I do have a
guru, the neighbor's dog.
And I'm so full of my guru
that as this true old
school spiritual author,
I dedicated my book
to my guru Sammy.
It says here to Sammy, my
teacher and the neighbor's dog.
>> Lilou: Aw.
>> van der Vliet: And
I'm so full of him
that I even put him
on the cover.
>> Lilou: Aw.
>> van der Vliet: Yeah.
>> Lilou: He is so adorable.
>> van der Vliet: This is
the story about the dog.
>> Lilou: Yeah.
So, did he, did he help you, I
mean through a certain moment
in time or this is in
reference for your whole journey
and you thought this is
a perfect incarnation
of what I've learned
or how do you?
>> van der Vliet: Well, I was
sitting in front of my house.
This is my chill place.
I live on a square and
I have four children
and they're playing
in front of me.
And I'm just sitting with a
book or with my notebook writing
and basically you could
call it meditating,
you know staring in front of me.
And then, I saw him
and it really struck me
that this is so spiritual.
But, it's not only about dogs.
It's about cats, cats
or whatever animal.
It's everything.
If you open your eyes, you
truly open your eyes you can be
inspired by everything
and anything.
So I say, there's no
gurus but everybody
in your life path is a teacher--
>> Lilou: Yeah.
>> van der Vliet: Including the
neighbor's dog or your cat--
>> Lilou: Yeah.
>> van der Vliet: Or whatever.
>> Lilou: I love that you say
God is life and replace it
and then you will see.
Tell us. Let's go into the
whole God conversation.
>> van der Vliet:
Yeah, cool, yeah, yeah.
Well, I'm-- this is
actually borrowed for--
from one of my great
inspirations,
Neale Donald Walsch because
he uses this somewhere
in his book, in one
of his books.
And I was-- yeah I was
completely struck by it
because I think God is
life and life is God.
So, God is often
you know somebody,
somebody as if it's
a person, you know.
I think God is energy or life.
But, it's-- people are afraid
of God because God is out there
and we are-- we're here and
we're separated from God.
And the big lesson, if
you replace the word God
by the word life is that
are you alive, Lilou?
So, you're God.
Am I alive?
Yes I am. So, everything
that is alive is God.
And it changes the whole
discussion about God,
because some religions
they have a discussion
about my God is the real God
and the other one is saying no.
No my God is the real God.
Well, is there one God?
You could say the universe
is one big living organism.
So, yes there is one God.
But, are there more gods?
Is there more life?
You're alive.
I'm alive, also true.
It's not that one is
true and the other isn't.
Often the same that two
seemingly opposite things are
actually true.
It's a bit paradox, paradoxical.
>> Lilou: Yeah.
>> van der Vliet: But, this
is-- with God you know,
is there one God or
are there more gods?
If you replace the word
God by the word life it's
about there is one God, one big
God, the universe, one big life
and has many, many,
many, many little lives.
>> Lilou: Um hmm.
>> van der Vliet:
So, it's truth.
>> Lilou: Umm hmm.
And yet one brings separation.
>> van der Vliet: Well, I don't
think that we're separated
from God, because since I
am alive I'm not separated
from life so I'm not
separated from God.
So, I just--
>> Lilou: We can feel separated.
>> van der Vliet:
Yes we can, yes.
>> Lilou: Like some people are
fighting for different gods.
>> van der Vliet: Yeah, yeah.
And I think if you
replace the word God
by life you stop this discussion
and you can embrace
each other basically.
>> Lilou: Yeah, yeah.
>> van der Vliet:
It's no use to fight.
>> Lilou: Yep.
>> van der Vliet: Yeah.
>> Lilou: Black is beautiful.
>> van der Vliet:
Black is beautiful.
I'm not wearing any black today.
No I love black.
Black is beautiful is
about embracing your
darker side, you know.
And a little example
is impatience.
Impatience, we are
only impatient--
>> Lilou: Yeah.
>> van der Vliet: Because we
feel we should be patient.
And if you allow yourself
to be inpatient you'll
actually become more patient.
So, it's-- if you
allow the darker sides,
whatever it is you know and
the dark side always comes
from the opinion
we have in our mind
about something in our life.
It is-- could be something from
our education and from our past,
from our families or just
made up by ourselves.
Yeah, but if you allow these
darker sides then they slowly
disappear because you don't
have such a strong opinion
about it and it's very simple.
Another example is it is
this one I dropped lately.
It's all about changing
belief systems basically.
But, to be thoughtless
in meditation I always
thought you have
to be thoughtless in meditation.
And if you have that point
of view you will
never be thoughtless.
>> Lilou: Um hmm.
>> van der Vliet: And by
allowing your thoughts
in meditation because
it's alright, you know.
It's alright to have thoughts.
It's actually very useful to
have thoughts in meditation.
And by allowing them they drop.
They become less--
>> Lilou: Um hmm.
>> van der Vliet: And you
become more thoughtless.
And this is the whole idea
with embracing our darker side,
the things that we don't
like about ourselves.
>> Lilou: Yeah.
>> van der Vliet: This
is our darker side.
But, if you allow it and
you take a bit of distance
and you smile at
yourself, it's alright.
And it seems to disappear
afterwards.
>> Lilou: Um--
>> van der Vliet: So, some--
>> Lilou: True, yeah.
>> van der Vliet: Yeah.
So, some things are
really, really disappeared.
When I was young
like 14 I always used
to use the word hate.
I hate this.
I hate that, typical guy
in puberty, you know.
And now I-- this-- it is
completely out of my system.
I don't hate anymore, you know.
I only use the word hate
in an example like this.
So, some things really
disappear.
>> Lilou: Yeah.
>> van der Vliet: Yeah.
>> Lilou: Ah and transform,
transmute like the alchemist.
And you must have
loved Paulo Coelho.
>> van der Vliet: I love it.
This is one of the
first books I read
when I was starting to open up.
And I loved it so
much because it's
about everybody is
writing their own legend.
This is the message of the book.
Everybody is writing
their own legend.
So, you don't have to read
somebody else's legends.
No. You're writing
your own legend.
And I completely loved it, yeah.
>> Lilou: Um.
>> van der Vliet: And also
with all the coincidences.
And what I like about
Paulo Coelho he's one
of my favorite authors
actually, that I believe
that everything he writes about
the mystical world I'll call it
like a guy who can
change the wind.
And this is an alchemist.
I believe that everything
he writes he believes.
>> Lilou: Yeah.
>> van der Vliet: And
this makes the dreamer
in me alive, you know.
And it resonates with me.
>> Lilou: Yeah.
>> van der Vliet:
I'm also a dreamer.
>> Lilou: Yeah.
>> Van der Vliet: Imaginer.
>> van der Vliet: A
fanciest, whatever.
>> Lilou: So, I guess
some of your--
the traders that you used to
work with or your family see you
in a different way now.
I mean do you think
you're weird?
Do they think you're weird
because of the spiritual thing?
>> van der Vliet: No.
>> Lilou: How do you--
>> van der Vliet: Yeah there--
>> Lilou: How do
you explain to them
because I guess the book too
is to help or your message
in general is to really
help people to kind
of demystify the whole thing.
>> van der Vliet:
Yes, definitely
and because the title is,
"Spiritual Awakening
the Easy Way"
but where it's spiritual is
nowhere in the book actually.
>> Lilou: Yeah.
>> van der Vliet: So--
and I really didn't
think so much about it.
It just kind of happened.
But, I understand now
that I'm also here
to make this spiritual
a bit lighter
and also the word
enlightenment--
>> Lilou: Yeah.
>> van der Vliet: A bit lighter.
People are-- there's something
so heavy about the world.
And it's just come on.
It's so-- you know let's
be a bit lighter about it.
>> Lilou: Yeah.
Lighten up huh?
>> van der Vliet:
Lighten up definitely.
>> Lilou: Yeah, yeah.
>> van der Vliet: Yeah.
About my-- I'm growing up in
you could say the Wimbledon
of Amsterdam.
And when this book came
out first I had a
self-published version out,
so this is about
three years ago.
People from that area
thought that I became crazy
because they saw the word,
that the word spiritual.
Yeah and they never read
the book, of course,
just judged the book by
its cover, that stuff.
And now they meet me and
you know you meet people
in Amsterdam.
There's only one million
people living there.
So, you meet everybody
just on the street.
And they say, but
you didn't change.
I'm like no.
Why would I?
Well, because you're writing
about this spiritual stuff now.
I'm like, so.
Well then, you must
be woo woo and fluffy
and whatever you call it.
>> Lilou: Yeah.
>> van der Vliet: I'm
like no, nothing changed.
Then I did what I liked,
trading at the market.
I liked the numbers.
You know I'm a complete
nerd actually.
And now I like what I do
so not that much changed,
but I'm now writing about it.
And so people have a
strong opinion about it.
But, the interesting thing is
there is this Amsterdam banking
blog, yeah.
So, it's about--
it's for traders.
And this guy that writes
about it he wrote something
about a trader goes yogi
style or something like that.
>> Lilou: I like that title.
>> van der Vliet: Yeah.
And something about my
book and I would expect
that all these guys would be
like, oh no, oh God how boring.
But, I got really interesting
remarks or comments.
They're like yeah
I read the book
and did you see his website?
It's completely different.
It's no so spiritual.
It's like designed.
And so people from this
market, the financial market,
my old colleagues
they actually--
they are quite open for it.
>> Lilou: Yeah
>> van der Vliet: And I
think that's very cool.
>> Lilou: Yeah, because once
we don't add all this stuff
and the woo stuff of the
special or the spiritual ego
or whatever there is in there
then it's just life isn't it.
>> van der Vliet: Yeah.
>> Lilou: It become
really simple.
>> van der Vliet: Yeah.
>> Lilou: And actually
quite clear.
>> van der Vliet: Yeah.
Yeah, I think also
that spiritual awakening is
actually personal development
plus a little bit.
>> Lilou: Yeah.
>> van der Vliet: And that plus
a little bit, this is step five
in my book, is how do you
share it with your surroundings
and help your surroundings
further.
>> Lilou: Yeah.
>> van der Vliet: You know.
So--
>> Lilou: You share your light.
>> van der Vliet: Yeah, how
do you share your light yeah
or your positive vibe or
your vibe in general, yeah.
>> Lilou: Yeah.
And tell us about
the be the force
because there's different
steps that you use, five steps.
>> van der Vliet: Yeah.
Let me explain shortly
about the five steps.
So, there's five steps and these
are five steps to enlightenment,
spiritual awakening or
have more joy in life.
Yeah, I'm using these
words rather light.
I think the core is about how
much fun do you get out of life.
I think we all have the same
goal in life and that is to seek
or not to seek to find your
smaller and your greater joys.
But, the five steps are-- the
first two steps are actually
about rationally understanding
how your mind works, you know,
so basically to know your
fears you could say also.
The first step is to break free.
And this breaking free can be
something like breaking free
from a relationship or a job
or you know this is a
physical breaking free.
But, it's more something that if
we have an insight this is also
a break free moment, a new
insight like, oh God is life.
Oh never thought
about that, you know.
So, this is break--
>> Lilou: We're breaking free
a lot during this interview.
This is good, yeah.
>> van der Vliet: I hope so.
So, this is the break
free moment.
Then after the break free
moment comes the let go.
Step two, let go.
This is about allowing
our mind and our body
to get used to the
new situation.
So, for example,
if say something really
nasty-- somebody dies, yeah.
If somebody dies, I had
this a month ago here
in England, a family member.
And if somebody dies and
after three days you're up
and running again and you don't
cry your eyes out it's too fast,
yeah because your body and your
mind they need time to get used
to this new situation.
So, this is-- the let
go phase is the phase
where you do exercise for your
body, but also for your mind.
This-- so this is-- exercise for
your body is to eat good food
and to drink water and to do
yoga and sports and running
in the park and whatever.
For the mind it's meditation
in the broad sense of the word.
So, these two steps
break free and let go,
is about gradually understanding
how your mind works.
So, it can go from
your mind to the heart.
Then step three and four is
about this accessing
your intuition.
Step three is to have fun.
This is-- you know it's in
the middle of the five steps
because it's the core.
>> Lilou: Hmm.
>> van der Vliet: As if you're
having you're having fun you're
being spiritual.
If you're having fun--
if you laugh you don't
think, for example.
>> Lilou: Hmm.
>> van der Vliet: So,
this is important.
And I'm not really trying to
be funny in this book I think
in that part, you know.
But, it's about-- for example,
if you don't take yourself
too serious you zoom out more
and you have, generally
have more fun.
>> Lilou: Yeah.
>> van der Vliet:
Well, this is one
of the things I write
in my book.
Step four is feel the force.
Feel the force is
flow, synchronicity.
Some people call it coincidence
and some people call it luck.
Yeah how do you access
the force, the flow?
>> Lilou: Yeah.
>> van der Vliet:
So, that's step four.
>> Lilou: So, it's actually
observing it or knowing
that they're there or
following that path?
What do you mean by that?
>> van der Vliet: Well, I
think that the core of being
in flow is-- I have this.
This is not in my book,
but this is in my lectures.
I have a metaphor for
life and its table tennis.
Yeah, in table tennis
there is the net and we
like to play over the net, yeah.
This keeps the kick and if
you play in the net its pain.
So, the joy is hitting
the ball over the net
and the pain is hitting
the ball in the net.
Now, the-- we wouldn't
like table tennis,
it wouldn't even exist if we
would always hit over the net.
So, back to life,
pain is part of life.
It's part of joy.
If we wouldn't know pain we
wouldn't know the experience
of joy either.
>> Lilou: Um hmm.
>> van der Vliet: You know.
But, clearly we prefer
joy over pain.
Oh, I do. You know maybe
some people don't, but I do.
So, what is-- the trick to go
from pain to joy and this is
with table tennis,
but also with life.
It's not to be strategic
and think too much about it.
But, it's actually
to become silent--
>> Lilou: Um hmm.
>> van der Vliet: And to stop
thinking and maybe say something
like come on you can do it.
>> Lilou: Um.
>> van der Vliet: You
know stand up again.
>> Lilou: Um.
>> van der Vliet:
And this is for me.
So, the core of being in flow is
to allow not flow
and to accept that.
To accept faith you
could say, you know.
To accept that not
flow is also flow.
>> Lilou: Um.
>> van der Vliet:
It's part of the game.
>> Lilou: Um.
>> van der Vliet: So,
if you hurt your toe you can
be grateful actually although
you're in pain because
of this experience
of pain you have the
experience of joy.
And this is the core I think of
being in flow that if it's not
that perfect that it's
actually also perfect.
>> Lilou: Um.
So, it's acceptance?
>> van der Vliet:
Yes definitely, yeah.
>> Lilou: Some people talk
about surrendering, yeah?
>> van der Vliet: Yeah.
Surrendering would be good
because well there's
two parts, you know.
If you really don't like
your life path it's time
for a change.
But, how do you get to this idea
that you don't like
your life path?
It's first to accept
what you're in.
>> Lilou: Mmm.
>> van der Vliet: To
become quiet and then it's
like I have to get out of here.
This is-- you know so it's good
to walk away from
stuff, I think.
You know it's very important
that you can actually--
you want things to change.
>> Lilou: Yeah.
>> Van der Vliet: This is-- it
all starts with the decision
that you want to change,
because we can all complain
about things.
But, if you don't want to
change then nothing will change.
>> Lilou: Yeah.
But, come from a quiet place.
That's what you're saying also.
>> van der Vliet: Yeah.
>> Lilou: Stepping back
and accepting allows us
to really take the decisions
for the right reasons.
>> van der Vliet:
Yeah, exactly, yeah.
>> Lilou: Not from a fear or?
>> van der Vliet: Um yeah
because if you become
quiet you're not in fear.
You're actually in love.
So, you're-- you
see more clearly.
>> Lilou: Um.
>> van der Vliet: Yeah.
So, but that's step four.
>> Lilou: Yeah.
>> van der Vliet: Then these
first four steps you can
actually see a spiritual
development.
And personal development is to
find out what you like in life.
It's from the mind,
understanding your mind
and your fears, going through
the heart and having fun.
Yeah, so these are
the first four steps.
So, personal development
is a big part
of the awakening process.
>> Lilou: The flow though starts
to go a little bit towards.
>> van der Vliet: Yeah, but
the thing is that people
in business they
don't call it flow.
They call it sitting
on the wave.
Well, we did at the market,
at the finance market.
And they talk about gut feeling.
>> Lilou: Yeah.
>> van der Vliet: All
businessmen do this.
>> Lilou: Yeah.
>> van der Vliet: They
talk about gut feeling.
It's exactly the same only
we use different words.
>> Lilou: Yeah.
>> Van der Vliet:
And this is you know,
this is where if people would
start communicating intuitively
they would say exactly the same.
>> Lilou: Umm.
>> van der Vliet: And this
is what I see everywhere
that people are actually
doing the same,
but they call a different and
then they get into a discussion.
It's only because they have
a communication problem.
>> Lilou: Yeah.
>> van der Vliet: So,
we're all doing the same.
We're all being spiritual.
We all have intuitive
minds or a heart, you know.
We're all the same
in this matter.
>> Lilou: Yeah.
It's just sometimes the word
spiritual is a little bit no--
>> van der Vliet: Yeah.
>> Lilou: Being conscious
is also very much a word.
>> van der Vliet: I think--
yeah, spiritual,
being conscious.
And for me spirituality is
actually being intuitive
and this makes it very simple.
And this is how people say on
the more rational side of life,
the average banker here
in London, for example.
They think like oh.
But, now I understand.
So, this is spiritual,
but this is really simple.
And I do make a distinction
between spirituality
and for example,
the mystic world.
And the mystic world
is there after death?
Is there ET life,
extraterrestrial life
and are they here on Earth?
How does this work with
energy, tarot cards.
You can name it, you know.
There's angels; more of them
angles than living entities
in these other dimensions,
which you could call angels.
I think that it's
extremely interesting.
And I know for the rest
of my life I will study the
mystical world, but it has--
this is-- has nothing to
do with living intuitively.
It can help you.
But, living intuitively
is an inside process.
And the mystical world
is seeking guidance
from the outside world actually.
So, we don't-- really don't
have to know about how this,
all this stuff works although
it's very interesting.
We don't have to know about that
to become intuitively more
intelligent you could say.
>> Lilou: Um hmm.
>> van der Vliet: This
is an inside process
for every person,
for him or herself--
>> Lilou: Um hmm.
>> van der Vliet: To do.
So, this is the personal
development basically.
You know how do I
understand how my mind works?
Where are my fears so I can
go to live more from the heart
and live more intuitively?
I think this creates more
longer term happiness
than a decision purely
based on the mind--
>> Lilou: Um hmm.
>> van der Vliet:
And what we learned.
So, these are the
first four steps.
>> Lilou: We become
like kids too.
I'm sorry--
>> van der Vliet: Yeah.
>> Lilou: Release the kids.
>> van der Vliet: Yeah, yeah.
>> Lilou: Not going
to the fifth step.
>> van der Vliet: Yeah.
>> Lilou: But, I'm
excited about the fourth.
>> van der Vliet: Yeah, yeah.
>> Lilou: This is just like--
it's just like being kids too,
you know becoming-- I love how
your kids, you speak of kids.
>> van der Vliet:
I have four kids.
I just told you.
So, I have three older kids, 14,
12 and 10 and they're together
in their puberty years.
And I have one, one
and half year old.
And my kids are my
greatest teachers.
You know and the youngest,
he's a one and a half year old.
I will show you pictures later.
He gives unconditional love.
He gives it, but he also makes
you give unconditional love.
You learn to love
unconditionally
from your children.
And my older kids the
three of them they--
I teach my kids you know
you have your own way
from when they are two.
You know so this is
basically their daily mantra.
So, this means that they have a
big mouth against their father
in a nice way, sometimes
also not so nice, by the way.
But, so my older kids learn
me how to lose my ego--
>> Lilou: Mmm.
>> van der Vliet: Because
I-- they have their own path.
And yeah, but what
I really learn
from kids especially the
younger they are the more this
expressing is-- a child
doesn't have any rules.
It's purely intuitive.
If it's sad it's crying.
And one minute later it's
out and he's laughing again.
And if it wants help
it asks for help.
And when they want to give
help they are giving help.
And this is something we can
really, really, really learn
from as an adult because
we have all kind of rules.
Oh I shouldn't cry--
>> Lilou: Mmm.
>> van der Vliet: You know
because crying is not cool.
>> Lilou: Mmm.
>> van der Vliet: I
think crying is cool.
>> Lilou: Um hmm.
>> van der Vliet: You know
I cried this morning, yeah.
And so its-- this is
what you can really learn
from children is basically
to express ourselves
to show how we feel, because
if we don't it stays somewhere
in your system.
>> Lilou: Mmm.
>> van der Vliet: And I had
this a few weeks ago at yoga.
I was doing yoga with a friend.
>> Lilou: You practice yoga?
>> van der Vliet:
Yes, yes, a lot, yes.
>> Lilou: A lot of
people on Gaaim love yoga
because there's all those--
>> van der Vliet: Oh I love it.
>> Lilou: Yoga videos too
and all those teachings.
>> van der Vliet: I do,
I do yoga every morning.
Every morning I do the five
Tibetan rights 21 times.
>> Lilou: Oh yeah.
>> van der Vliet: And so--
>> Lilou: Those are great, yeah.
>> van der Vliet: Those
are-- it's pure energy.
You know you don't need a
double latte if you do the--
if you do yoga in the morning.
And I meditate also every day.
But-- and so I love yoga.
I love yoga and I was doing yoga
with a friend of mine and I had
to laugh like really
like ha, ha, ha.
But, I kept it in--
>> Lilou: Mmm.
>> van der Vliet: Because the
teacher was looking at me like,
you know so I kept it in.
And 10 minutes later I
couldn't do anything anymore
and I just had to lie down, why,
because I didn't express myself,
because I was being decent--
>> Lilou: Mmm.
>> van der Vliet:
To the teacher--
>> Lilou: Mmm.
>> van der Vliet: Because
he was looking angry at me.
>> Lilou: Mmm.
>> van der Vliet: And I thought
like, well okay, no, no, no, no.
I can't start laughing
because I really felt
like laughing and I didn't.
So, that time I didn't
behave like a kid
and my energy dropped.
And this is something,
if we express ourselves you know
your energy is flowing very much
and your energy's very high.
And this is the big
lesson we can learn
from our children, yeah.
>> Lilou: Mmm, mmm.
>> van der Vliet: Yeah.
>> Lilou: The fifth step.
>> Van der Vliet:
The fifth step.
So, the first four steps is
from the mind through the heart
and to access intuition.
And then the fifth step is--
I called it move
towards the light.
And this is about how do
you share your positive vibe
with the rest of the world.
And here comes also
the idea that we're--
basically we're always
forming a collective.
You just said it that
you are you and I am me.
We are in a way separate
entities.
I know we're all one you know,
but we're also separate entities
in the sense that you eat
your food and I eat my food.
You know I can't eat
your food for example.
So, we have to take care
for ourselves, eat healthy,
do yoga every day or whatever.
I don't think this is a
must, but it works for me.
So-- and on the other hand
we're always part of a group.
>> Lilou: Yeah.
>> van der Vliet: Always.
We are forming a group now and
with a lot of other people also.
And in the end humanity
is a group
or Earth or even the universe.
So, we're-- at the same time
you're being an individual and
or an entity and you're
part of a collective.
So, you're being a collective.
This is also again
such a paradox
that you're both an individual
and a collective
at the same time.
And a very simple example and
this is also not in my book,
but-- because my book is
more like short insights
and short snippets of text.
But, an example is
a football team.
I think football's
very spiritual.
I don't watch football.
I really don't care for
football, but this idea
that I'm going to tell you
I think it's spiritual.
So, in the United States you
call this soccer by the way,
but it goes for American
football too.
It is the idea that
every player is an entity
and is optimizing his own
ability to play football.
But, if these players don't play
together, there's no team player
in every person,
that will never win.
It's about playing together.
>> Lilou: Mmm.
>> van der Vliet: And this
is, I think, this is my idea.
I think that we're really good
in playing together in the world
and that competition
is actually an illusion
and that playing together is
what we're really good at.
And you see this in sports even
though one team is battling
against the other team.
It's because they work so
good together, the team player
in every individual
player is developed.
This is why they win a match.
>> Lilou: Mmm.
>> van der Vliet: So, this
is what we're really good at.
>> Lilou: Mmm.
>> van der Vliet: It's
playing or working together.
>> Lilou: Mmm.
So, sharing your light, why did
you call it sharing our light?
What's the light part?
>> van der Vliet: The light
part is the part where you see
that fears are-- they're very
human, but also quite useless.
And they're-- actually
if you take enough steps back
it's kind of an illusion.
>> Lilou: Mmm.
>> van der Vliet: And if you
notice then you start to unwind,
let go of your fears and
here's where meditation
and yoga really, really helps.
And this is where a
different path comes out
and for me this is
writing books now.
But, I-- you know
I started writing
about five years
ago out of the blue.
>> Lilou: Mmm.
>> van der Vliet: So, it's the
more open you are the more your
energy flows and the more,
light and literally
lighter you become.
And this shows automatically
in your surrounds.
It's actually, going back to
the kids, if a child is playing
and having fun then it's
lightening up his or her world.
>> Lilou: Mmm.
>> van der Vliet: You know
these five adults staring
at this baby.
I call this the babies
stare meditation.
And then after a minute
I, oh, oh, ha, oh,
it's such a beautiful
boy, you know.
This is what a child does in
lighting their surroundings
by generally doing what
they like, playing.
>> Lilou: Yeah.
>> van der Vliet:
And this is what--
the more delighted you
become the more you become
like a child, the more
you're going to play.
And you're basically
enlightening your surroundings.
>> Lilou: Yeah.
>> van der Vliet:
You know it's--
>> Lilou: It's not
so much what it is.
It's more the way that
we're sharing our light,
our lightness, our
soul expression or?
>> van der Vliet:
Yeah, I think so, yeah.
>> Lilou: What do
you think is light?
>> van der Vliet: Well, in
a scientific way this is--
I think this is very interesting
that if you break down matter
into the smallest part, parts,
so this is quantum physics.
Most of it or I think all of it,
maybe I'm slightly wrong here,
but it comes down to photons.
And so we're all
actually made of light.
It's so bizarre and
this is science.
>> Lilou: Umm hmm.
>> van der Vliet: You know
because I love to be mystical
and sometimes woo that we're
all light and shine your light.
But, we're actually
made of light
in the scientific
form, you know.
And I think that's
very interesting.
But, I think if-- we're all in
a way, we're stars, you know
and especially our heart
energy is very strong
and if you do what you
like you're literally,
literally radiating.
So, people might not see
it, but they do feel it.
And this is where you get--
I'm sure you have this too that
you're walking on the street
and this three year old
child is just staring at you.
You have that too, right?
Yeah. This is probably because
she just had some really nice
thought or you're being
happy for nothing,
you know also works very good.
And then people notice
especially children.
They notice.
And you start also looking
people in the eye and smiling
to people in the street.
>> Lilou: Mmm.
>> van der Vliet: I do
this my whole life actually
and people are amazed by that.
It's so easy to lighten
up somebody's day
by just looking somebody
in the eye
and smiling at them, you know.
And if we would all do
that you have this world.
I already think it's
a beautiful world,
but will be even more beautiful.
>> Lilou: Yeah.
I love because we're discussing
of all of those big topic
with so much lightness.
And you know it really
feels good.
I have another pretty
heavy usually question,
but I'm sure you're going
to bring light to it.
Truths, what is true?
>> van der Vliet: Ooh,
ooh, ooh, ah, ah, ah.
Well, I think that
truth is about knowing
and about being right,
which is from our mind.
My general idea is
that you don't have
to believe everything
your mind produces.
And if you do life becomes,
life becomes a lighter.
Truth is a personal thing.
And so for me I do this
yoga every morning.
This is my truth.
It works for me.
And so it works for me, but
truth is a personal thing.
So, it's not something that--
I cannot force my truths up onto
you I think you say in English.
And because there's my truth
and there's your truth.
And so truth basically
doesn't exist.
>> Lilou: Um hmm.
>> van der Vliet: Truth is
what the average idiot thinks--
>> Lilou: Um hmm.
>> van der Vliet: Or
believes to be true.
And so basically this is blue,
but if 51 percent of the people
in the world would say no,
this is green I would be wrong.
So, truth is relative.
It doesn't exist.
And then on the other hand
and so everybody has
their personal truth.
Truth doesn't exist.
This is my point of view.
And then some, somebody could
say it's more philosophical.
But-- well love is the truth,
you know and fear isn't.
Yeah in the philosophical
way I could say okay,
okay if there is a higher
truth then you could say
that love is the higher truth.
>> Lilou: Mmm.
>> van der Vliet: You
know because this is--
when I have a problem with
something or a challenge I--
often I'll ask myself
okay what is my problem
and what would love decide.
And sometimes your love
decision is quite tough
for other people--
>> Lilou: Mmm.
>> van der Vliet: Because
you're being straight basically.
>> Lilou: Mmm.
>> van der Vliet: If you start--
>> Lilou: Big noes
oh is from love.
>> van der Vliet: Yeah.
I think to say no is
very, very spiritual--
>> Lilou: Mmm.
>> van der Vliet: Because a lot
of people will become
spiritual they say like,
oh yes, oh yes only yes.
You know they never say no.
>> Lilou: Mmm.
>> van der Vliet: I say no.
>> van der Vliet: No.
This is not my game,
sorry, stop here.
>> Lilou: Mmm, yeah.
Yeah me too and I felt the
biggest growth step in harmony
with my really-- my
truth or aligned with--
>> van der Vliet: Yeah.
>> Lilou: My soul
was the big noes.
>> van der Vliet: Yeah, yeah
because you have your truth.
This-- actually the only
responsibility we have is
to live our life for our
own happiness basically.
And this is also what you
show in life, you know.
It's not what you say.
It's what you show because
writing a book is cool.
But, this is not-- you know
it's a cool book and I love it
and it really sells good.
But, it's actually-- it's
not about writing this book.
It's about showing
what I do in my life,
you know, my daily life.
And this is-- I'm actually
better offline than online,
I think you know by standing
at the bus station and talking
to this older woman and you know
I'm really getting that part
of playing with my kids or
drinking coffee with a friend
of mine in the morning,
you know.
This is what I'm really good
at, just talking to people.
>> Lilou: Yeah.
>> van der Vliet: And that--
you could see that
as walking the walk
and writing and giving lectures.
I love to do it, but
it's talking the talk.
And it is eventually about what
do you-- what you show in life.
I think that Gandhi said
something like that.
What's your message
Gandhi and he said,
"My life is my message."
>> Lilou: Mmm.
>> van der Vliet: I think
that's really nice, well put,
yeah, big inspiration also.
>> Lilou: Mmm.
So, when you choose to do some
project or work with somebody,
how do you chose that?
>> van der Vliet:
I don't choose.
First of all I only work
with people that I like.
I have a higher connection
or am higher with.
And so, but everybody I
work with just passes by.
So, I was just saying about this
friend I'm drinking coffee with.
We meet each other three times
a week and we're both busy,
but we have our silent
moment together.
Sometimes we don't speak.
Sometimes we do speak.
And he's real-- he's--
at Nike, he's a big designer.
He designs, the new
shop in Rome,
for example, he designed that.
And I was making a website
and I thought I was going
to do the design myself.
And he said, you know
what, I can do your design.
I went, really.
But, aren't you too busy?
No and it's alright.
I like to do this.
You know we have such
a great time always.
And this is how I meet
the people I work with.
It's only because you
know because I like them.
And also with Hayhouse
it's, you know it's so cool
that I have this
deal with Hayhouse.
But, when I was going
there I started meditating.
I immediately felt
my crowd, you know.
So, it felt good.
But, I wasn't sure.
You know I wasn't going to
say yes just immediately.
I wanted to feel them.
>> Lilou: Yeah.
>> van der Vliet: And
they're exactly the same.
And they felt that I
was part of their family
and I felt exactly the same
and this is how I feel now.
But, the deal can
be you know so good,
but if it doesn't feel
good I can't do it.
So, I'm really trusting,
trusting the gut.
>> Lilou: Yeah.
>> van der Vliet: As
people in business would say
or trusting my intuition.
>> Lilou: Yeah.
>> van der Vliet:
Trusting my heart.
>> Lilou: Yeah.
>> van der Vliet: And this
is how I work with people.
>> Lilou: Mmm.
>> van der Vliet: And I
work with quite a few people
and it's only because
I like them.
>> Lilou: Yeah.
Is there something else
that you would like to add
to this delicious
conversation to kind
of end our beautiful
time together here?
Another aspect that we might
have not talked about or?
>> van der Vliet:
Well, the thing is
with this book what people
often do is they use it
as tarot cards.
So, in the morning you
had to take a deep breath
and they open the
book somewhere.
>> Lilou: Oh yeah.
>> van der Vliet:
So, shall we do that?
>> Lilou: Yes.
>> van der Vliet: Yeah, okay.
[ Breathing deep sounds ]
[ Silence ]
Well it's this one.
It says basically it's
time to give-- the, the--
it's time for-- this is really
difficult for me in English.
We have the patriarchy and
so the man is the boss.
>> Lilou: Yeah.
>> van der Vliet: It's
time to turn this around.
You know we did for thousands
of years and now it's time
to give the women the key and
it's time for the matriarchy.
>> Lilou: Mmm.
>> van der Vliet:
Yeah, it's this one.
So, let's show it to the camera.
>> Lilou: Yeah, beautiful.
Thank you so much--
>> van der Vliet:
Thank you so much.
>> Lilou: Tim for this
delicious conversation.
I loved it.
Ah thank you.
>> van der Vliet:
Thank you, thank you.
I had a great time, yeah.
>> Lilou: Me too.
>> van der Vliet: It's
so nice with you, yeah.
>> Lilou: And we'll
see you again maybe
in Amsterdam next time.
>> van der Vliet:
Mmm, yeah for sure.
>> Lilou: Such a great city.
Have you visited Amsterdam yet?
I mean this is one of the most
delicious places in Europe,
a must see with Venice, with
London, with Paris of course.
I mean these-- Barcelona.
>> van der Vliet:
I love all of them.
>> Lilou: Aw.
>> van der Vliet: The thing
is also that the things I do,
I call it Zen from Amsterdam.
>> Lilou: Ah.
>> van der Vliet: And it's
basically Zen without rules.
>> Lilou: Mmm.
>> van der Vliet:
You know so, yeah.
>> Lilou: If there is one
rule in life, there's no rule.
I read that in your book.
>> van der Vliet: Yeah, yeah.
The only rule is no rule, yeah.
I love that, yeah.
>> Lilou: Awesome.
Big, big kisses my
delicious co-creators.
Thank you for watching.
Please comment underneath
this video
and let's have a
whole conversation.
Let's expand the
conversation to more.
Big, big kisses, bye, bye.
[ Music ]